---
layout: page
title: The Recipe for Success
subtitle: Uncovering the actors behind a hit movie
cover-img: /assets/img/rouleau_film_resized.jpg
---

## What makes a movie successful?
Is it the script, the director, or could it be the actor at the helm? We all know that actors are an essential part of a movie, but what actually is the recipe for success? Don't worry, we're here to answer all these questions and much more, so just scroll on! 👇

## A brief introduction
Movies are not like books. They are rarely solitary tasks and often involve large productions. They cannot spawn purely from the imagination and creativity of individuals. For movies to come to life, real human beings must play out a script given to them. They are part of the heart and soul of the production, and without these actors and actresses, there is no movie. This is why it's so essential to study the lead actors starring in a movie when evaluating its critical and commercial success.

## Wait, What Are We Even Looking At Here?
To analyze movies, we need reliable and representative data about them. In this project, we rely on multiple movie databases to explore the relationship between actor characteristics and movie success: the CMU dataset, the IMDb non-commercial dataset and a TMDb Kaggle dataset. You can find all descriptions in the [resources page](/ada-2024-project-authenticdataaddicts/resources/)! To make it short, these datasets give us insights about movies title, genre, release date, runtime, box office and ratings, as well as valuable informations about cast information such as actors and actresses' age, gender or ethnicity.

What often plays a crucial role in a movie is the cast, in particular the lead actors. They will be an essential part of our project, so its important for you to know how we find them! One of the IMDb dataset allows us to extract the cast members that have the first and second role, this is what we will refer to as lead actors!

Our first question was "What makes a movie successful". But what do we mean by success? 🤔 Here, we will use two measures: box office performance (i.e. revenue generated by the movie) and critical reception (i.e. ratings from spectators). Indeed, high-grossing movies may not always be well-received and vice versa, so separating performance from reception could yield new insight.

One last technicality in this project is adjusting the box office for inflation. This step is essential to ensure that movies from different time periods are compared fairly, as there may be economic changes over the years. We used the US inflation rates as a measure for this standardization, to convert the box office revenue in 2012 US dollars. For this a dataset from the US Bureau of Labor Inflation Statistics was used, again the description can be found at the [resources page](/ada-2024-project-authenticdataaddicts/resources/).


## Behind the Scenes: Let's Take a Quick Tour of the Movies
--> talk/put plots about the general trends, length type genre of movie that is the most successful


## Stars of the Show: It's Time to Explore the Leading Cast!
--> talk about gender, ethnicity, height, and see how this affects things overall

## Does the Genre Change the Game? Let’s Find Out!
--> talk about the distribution of genres, and then do these studies but by genre

## Box Office Hit or Critics' Darling? Can a Movie Have It All?
--> to be good or to be successful 

## The Final Cut: What Did We Uncover? 
--> summary and explain our key take aways

## And That's a Wrap! 
--> short and sweet conclusion and goodbye 
